Add "Get Started" page for sc (new IA) (#1018)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: smart-contracts/get-started.md

Reviewer: I just reviewed one of Bruno's PRs for Get Started. I have the same comments here as I did there ([link](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/1042#discussion_r2409202510)): 

> This page is a bit overwhelming. We're throwing a ton of links at people. It basically is just replicating what the user sees on the left navigation. I think we need to take a step back and think about what we really want on this page because as it is now it gives the user a bunch of different directions to get started, it doesn't actually help them achieve anything to get started... if that makes sense

Also another comment about the "tutorial" terminology ([link](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/1042#discussion_r2409195479)).

---
title: Get Started with Smart Contracts

> description: Start building on the Polkadot Hub. This page orients you to explorers, faucets, Ethereum developer references, and hands-on cookbook tutorials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: This page orients you to explorers, faucets, Ethereum developer references, and hands-on cookbook tutorials so you can start building on the Polkadot Hub.
```

categories: Smart Contracts, Basics
---

# Get Started

## Essential Resources

Get up and running quickly with these essential resources for connecting to the network, exploring transactions, and obtaining test tokens.

- **[Connect to Polkadot](/smart-contracts/connect/){target=\_blank}**: Learn about RPC endpoints, chain ID, and block explorer URLs to connect to the network.

> - **[Block Explorers](/smart-contracts/explorers/){target=\_blank}**: Inspect transactions, addresses, contracts, and blocks. Use block explorers to track contract deployments, logs, and token transfers with detailed transaction history.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Block Explorers](/smart-contracts/explorers/){target=\_blank}**: Inspect transactions, addresses, contracts, and blocks by using block explorers to track deployments, logs, token transfers, and detailed histories.
```
I merged the two sentences, since the first was just the verb and a list, this way theres a bit more context.

- **[Faucets](/smart-contracts/faucets/){target=\_blank}**: Request test tokens for deploying and interacting with contracts. Discover how to request test funds and understand common requirements and limits.

## For Ethereum Developers

> If you're coming from Ethereum, these guides will help you understand how familiar concepts translate to the Polkadot Hub while leveraging your existing knowledge and tooling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're coming from Ethereum, these guides will help you understand how core concepts translate to the Polkadot Hub while leveraging your existing knowledge and tooling.
```

> - **[Accounts](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/accounts/)**: Understand the relationship between 20‑byte Ethereum addresses and 32‑byte Polkadot accounts. Learn about address mapping, reversibility, and when mapping is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Accounts](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/accounts/){target=\_blank}**: Understand how 20-byte Ethereum addresses correspond to 32-byte Polkadot accounts, including how address mapping works, when it’s reversible, and when mapping is required.
```

> - **[Blocks, Transactions, and Fees](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/blocks-transactions-fees/)**: Explore transaction types and the fee/gas model on Polkadot Hub. Understand Legacy, EIP‑1559, EIP‑2930, EIP‑4844 formats and multi‑dimensional metering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Blocks, Transactions, and Fees](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/blocks-transactions-fees/){target=\_blank}**: Explore transaction types and the fee/gas model on Polkadot Hub, including Legacy, EIP-1559, EIP-2930, EIP-4844 formats, and multi-dimensional metering.
```

> - **[Gas Model](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/gas-model/)**: Learn how gas relates to computation, proof size, and storage deposit. Understand resource dimensions and conversions to EVM units.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Gas Model](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/gas-model/){target=\_blank}**: Learn how gas relates to computation, proof size, and storage deposits, and how resource dimensions convert to EVM units.
```

> - **[Contract Deployment](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/contract-deployment/)**: Master deployment patterns and tooling specific to the Polkadot Hub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Contract Deployment](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/contract-deployment/){target=\_blank}**: Master deployment patterns and tooling specific to the Polkadot Hub.
```

> - **[JSON‑RPC APIs](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/json-rpc-apis/)**: Reference supported Ethereum JSON‑RPC methods with practical examples. Some of the methods available are `eth_call`, `eth_sendRawTransaction`, tracing endpoints, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[JSON‑RPC APIs](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/json-rpc-apis/){target=\_blank}**: Reference supported Ethereum JSON‑RPC methods with practical examples. Some available methods are `eth_call`, `eth_sendRawTransaction`, tracing endpoints, and more.
```

> - **[Migration](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/migration/)**: Get practical guidance for porting existing apps and tooling to Polkadot Hub. Find migration tips for contracts and integrations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **[Migration](/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/migration/)**: Get practical guidance for porting existing apps and tooling to Polkadot Hub, including migration tips for contracts and integrations.
```

> - **[Migration](/develop/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/migration/)**: Get practical guidance for porting existing apps and tooling to Polkadot Hub. Find migration tips for contracts and integrations.

Reviewer: The related pages have already been merged, so just need to pull in the latest changes and then update the links

> - **[Migration](/develop/smart-contracts/for-eth-devs/migration/)**: Get practical guidance for porting existing apps and tooling to Polkadot Hub. Find migration tips for contracts and integrations.

Author: fixed in [7eb1b4a](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/1018/commits/7eb1b4a967f0af15a5574de6394f25b1386d8665)

## Cookbook: Hands‑on Tutorials

Learn by building with step-by-step tutorials that take you from basic token contracts to complex dApps.

- **[Deploy an ERC‑20 to the Polkadot Hub](/smart-contracts/cookbook/smart-contracts/deploy-erc20/){target=\_blank}**: Create, compile, deploy, and mint a fungible token using Polkadot Remix and OpenZeppelin contracts.

- **[Deploy an NFT (ERC‑721) to the Polkadot Hub](/smart-contracts/cookbook/smart-contracts/deploy-nft/){target=\_blank}**: Build and deploy NFT contracts with minting capabilities using Polkadot Remix and OpenZeppelin standards.

- **[Deploy Uniswap V2](/smart-contracts/cookbook/eth-dapps/uniswap-v2/){target=\_blank}**: Set up a complete Hardhat project, compile and test locally, then deploy the full Uniswap V2 protocol to TestNet.

## Suggested Path

A suggested path to get started with smart contract development on the Polkadot Hub is:

1. Connect your wallet and get test tokens.
2. Get familiar with the block explorer.
3. Deploy ERC‑20 or NFT with Remix.

> 4. Dive into JSON‑RPC and advanced topics.

Reviewer 2: If you mean JSON-RPC as one topic among others, then:
```suggestion
4. Dive into JSON-RPC and other advanced topics.
```

5. Build larger dApps (e.g., Uniswap V2) with Hardhat.

## Where to Go Next

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   <span class="badge guide">Guide</span> __Connect to Polkadot__

    ---

>     Add the network, fund your account, and verify activity in the explorer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Add the network, fund your account, and verify activity in the Explorer.
```
